(siren wailing)
-Captain.
-Howard, I'm sorry.
They're recommending demotion.
-(sighs) That was a clean shoot, Frank.
-I know that.
I walked into a store
that was being robbed.
The perpetrator turned his weapon on me.
Judas, what in heaven's name
was I supposed to do?
Your load wasn't department authorized,
the weapon wasn't department issued,
he was 14 with no priors,
the entry wound was in his side.
(sighs)
Sergeant Hunter.
Howard, can I try out an idea on you?
(chattering)
Gentlemen and ladies,
good morning.
I announce reshuffling in our ranks.
Stanislav Jablonski,
roll call sergeant,
is now on the voluntary retirement list
for reasons of health.
And I henceforth am Sergeant Hunter.
Oh, Lord, you got to
fight this, Lieutenant.
(chattering)
Grateful as I am for the sentiment
expressed in Andrew's exhortation,
I won't allow myself to be ensnared
in the web of bureaucratic reviews
or board of appeals.
As I have done for the last 14 years,
I'm going to go about the business
of being a law enforcement officer
as it is given me to perform the task.
Item one...
Because if we're asking officers
to use discretion in the street,
I want veterans making the calls.
Look, if you have any pull
with Councilman Wisniewski
I suggest you use it
'cause this is gonna get bad fast.
Right.
-Hi.
-Hi. Strike settled?
Dropping off case files for the lawyers
who replace us.
Sidney Leftcourt called me this morning.
Said the Bar Association contacted him,
asked if he wanted to do some PD work.
-He's a negligence attorney.
-Sidney Leftcourt Sr.
(knocking)
We're meeting with the city council
negotiators at 8:00.
Any progress
on those senior citizens assaults?
Have I told you I'd favor settlement?
They've got to give the jobs back.
Items related
to the current despicable job action
carried on by the city's public defenders.
(grumbling)
The usual motor patrol pairings
will instead take foot patrol
in their assigned sectors.
Foot? Oh, my aching bunions.
Listen up. Listen up.
Until the strike is resolved,
motor patrol units will be manned
by transferees from Division.
To you newcomers, welcome.
Your assignments are posted
on the board upstairs.
That's just to the left of the landing.
Keep saying it, Neal.
Keep telling me it isn't fate.
-It isn't fate.
-It's fate.
It's Division, babe. (chuckles)
To all officers,
Division's issued this directive.
"Because of the ongoing
public defender's strike,
at 6:00 this morning, detainees arrested
in the past 48 hours
for relatively minor offenses
and not yet charged or arraigned
have been released."
-(coughs)
-Listen up, there's more.
-(chattering)
-"Consonant with this policy
because of the difficulty
of securing representation
for the indigent offenders,
until settlement of the strike,
officers will exercise prudence
in making discretionary arrests."
(clamoring)
A pop is either right or it's wrong.
(agreeing)
I couldn't agree with you more.
And yet it remains for us to do our jobs
with whatever difficulty
or however unfairly burdened
or charged or unacknowledged
or even held in disrepute
by those we serve.
We sought our duty freely.
Let us perform it
to the best of our abilities.
And with pride.
I'm looking forward to serving with you.
-Dismissed.
-Got to walk all day.
All day I got to walk.
Hey, hey, hey. Slow down, lover.
She didn't exactly dig your act yesterday.
You got to learn to hear below the words.
Uh, what do you say...
We submit this to the Second Chance
For Happiness Book Club?
Break your arm.
-She's weakening.
-(chuckles)
WOMAN (on radio):
Dispatch. We have a 9-11.
Armed robbery in progress.
See Surplus Store,
corner People's Drive and 124th street.
(sirens wailing)
(theme music playing)
Sergeant, how about I work the squad room
with you this morning?
Oh, I am grateful for the thought,
Sergeant Bates,
but I believe that you're best assigned
supervising the Division
transferees in motor patrol.
You're right.
-Russo. Who's Russo?
-Here.
Tina.
Patrick Flaherty. Unit six.
And six is my lucky number.
Well, it better be because that car
is a real bomb.
Patrick Flaherty, Sergeant.
-How you doing?
-Tina Russo.
Tina, how are you? What do you say
to some company today?
Patrick Flaherty from the Heights?
Used to ride with Andy Schuler?
That's right.
Remember it.
I don't want you talking to me, kid.
You got it.
Let's go.
Yo, Howard.
I heard you're the man this morning.
You look good in blue. I mean that.
Jesus, we are in the middle
of a crisis situation.
The cavalry has arrived, Howie.
Cut a deal with the city to supply lawyers
for your indigents in custody.
Meet my boy.
Heaven help the indigents.
I wouldn't count on it, Howie.
It hasn't happened yet.
Interrogation is that way.
Jesus, where's the bathroom?
It's on the way, Sy, it's on the way.
Can you make it? We're almost there, huh.
You know, Sy's plumbing
is not working too well.
He's got one of those bags.
But his noodle is class A.
(speaks Spanish)
You ever think of using perfume, Sy?
For reasons we'll get to,
I wanted to give you your
assignments this morning.
Henry, you--
You're seeing Chief Daniels
on a black tar task force.
Trying to get a budget allocation
over two figures.
Norman, when the open
the cells this morning
because of the PD's job action,
three class A felons got released
among the non-A perps.
-I'll pick them up. Yeah.
-Uniform backup as appropriate.
For all of you,
SID turned up evidence overnight
linking the Levison murder
with the earlier rob-assaults
of the elderly over on Michigan Avenue.
Neal, J.D., interview possible witnesses
in the stationhouse.
Maybe they can help each
other with recollections.
Mick, authorization finally came through.
You can start your undercover
at the Puleo Bakery.
Counterman's your contact.
Howard Hunter's been demoted to sergeant.
Department's got nothing
but guts, huh, Captain?
I've appointed Howard
sergeant of the watch.
After today he'll be giving
you your assignments.
It's gonna be a tough adjustment
for him across the board.
Maybe the toughest part's gonna be
working with officers
who used to be his equals in rank
who are now his superiors.
We won't rub his nose in it, Captain.
Well, I know each of you
will do everything you can
to help him make this transition.
Good shift.
If I was Hunter
I'd tell them all to kiss my...
Stan Jablonski is on two, Captain.
Thanks, Howard.
FRANK: Stan, how are you?
They got me all drugged up, Captain.
Can't feel a thing.
Can you beat it?
Came in for tests,
and they're putting me under the knife.
Oh, I'm sure it'll turn out all right.
So how's it going?
FRANK (over phone): Um, okay.
Is there anything I can do for you, Stan?
STAN (over phone): Yeah, have somebody
sneak me in a kielbasa.
The food here is the worst.
(groans) Got to go now.
Looks like it's time.
-So long, Stan. Good luck.
-So long, Captain.
Mick?
Why aren't I on
the old people's investigation?
-It's shoe leather.
-I want it.
Mick, it took us a month to get permission
from that bakery owner for your stakeout.
I'm not being punished for yelling
at your wife, am I?
-That's out of line.
-But am I right?
I think you were overinvolved.
I don't want you making mistakes.
While LaRue and Washington are bringing in
possible witnesses
from last night's homicides,
I'd suggest we run down MOs
on fences for stolen checks.
I'd start with stores
closest to the post office.
Keep Neal and J.D. posted.
Thank you.
COUNCILMAN: When I proposed
a 30 percent cutback in PD staff,
I was out to make a point.
Less money for mollycoddling criminals
and more money for jails.
We didn't come down here to listen to you
make a speech, Wisniewski.
And I didn't come here to make one either.
It's our understanding
that the city council
held a midnight caucus.
That's true.
We had a long, difficult evening.
Aw, you're breaking our hearts here.
You are out of line, young man.
Would you allow the councilman to speak?
That's all he ever does,
but he never says anything.
-That's enough, Danny.
-All right, look.
Nobody is trying to be unreasonable here.
We understand that you people
have legitimate job concerns
and if our first proposal was too harsh,
there's no reason
that has to be written in stone.
DANNY: Ah, translation from English.
Iggy's plan has backfired.
Public opinion is with the PDs.
Shorts getting a little tight, Iggy?
There's no dealing with these people.
They've got a hooligan in charge!
Goodbye, civilization!
That was helpful.
Yo, Jerry. Jerry! Put that away.
All done, honey.
Guy's been all done for 20 years.
Hey, Sarge, I heard the captain's wife
is leading the PD strike. Is that right?
She's head of some committee or something.
I don't know.
-You met the captain yet, you guys?
-Not really.
You're gonna like him.
So, Tina,
I hear that you already
know Detective LaRue.
We met.
Patrick, you and Detective Buntz
go back to the Heights together?
I don't know Detective Buntz.
Let's get clear on this discretion
making arrests.
Now we see an A-type felony,
that's it, no questions,
we take the perp in.
Anything else, I mean anything else,
we bang the pots and pans together,
we make a lot of noise
then we find some reason
not to make the collar.
How long do you
think we can keep that up, Sarge?
As long as the PD strike lasts.
Yeah, but how long can we keep it up
before the perps figure the play?
Knowing we ain't making any arrests,
they start thieving
whatever isn't tied down.
Well, I guess we're gonna
have to find that out.
-Russo.
-Hmm?
Spot quiz.
If it's murder, what do we do?
Uh, close call,
but I think we take them in.
-Arson?
-A pop.
What about kicking? That would depend
where the kick was aimed.
Was it a drunk
just doing a lazy kick at a pal?
Which in case,
I would personally use discretion.
Or, on the other hand,
what if it was in the genital area?
Oh!
Has he been like this a long time?
I just met the officer.
Furthermore, it is not our job
to be pounding the pavement
at this advanced stage of our seniority.
Renko, that's a part of it.
And if I happen to see a PD,
I'm gonna do bodily harm regardless--
-Police. Hey, come here.
-Oh, Lord, what is this?
This guy, he's got my bananas.
Sticking them in his ear.
He's a nut. Come on.
If you can't get through,
get me somebody who can.
Or at least-- at least get me
a transmitter that works.
Hey, mister, why are you doing this?
I'll turn it around on you.
What would you do
if you had been held prisoner
on a gravity shelf for almost 18 months?
Tortured night and day by the laser squad.
The man's got a point.
Sir, we had no idea
you'd been held there that long.
I don't believe this. Bust him!
I'm sorry, sir, but due to circumstances
we did not create,
we can't do it right now.
I understand what you mean.
I was lost out there fuseless
in that barren waste.
My shield smashed into fragments.
Where is this gravity shelf, sir?
Oh... Forget about it. Forget about it.
Don't ever go there.
You wouldn't last a minute.
Sir, excuse me.
How much would two bucks buy?
-Three bunches.
-Three bunches?
Sire, I have a suggestion.
Why don't we take a walk around the corner
and we can continue this battle?
They're tastier if you put them
in your mouth.
-Oh, yeah?
-Yeah.
No.
(shop bell rings)
Thanks very much.
What can I get you?
Uh, I want to cash a check.
Guy I knew up in Harrisonville
said maybe you could help me out.
Florence Sinowitz.
-Is that you, Florence Sinowitz?
-Do you want to do business or not?
House gets 60 percent.
(chuckles) Get out of here.
Hey, that's the going rate
for this kind of paper.
I got risks, too, you know.
Take it or leave it.
Okay.
(sighs)
Twenty, 40, 60, 80,
120, 135, 136. That's it.
Not quite, toe jam. You're under arrest.
MAN 1: Hey, man,
what is the matter with you?
-Can't you see where you're going?
-(siren blares)
How come you stopped your car
in the middle of the street?
-MAN 2: Are you blind?
-MAN 1: Hell, no, I'm not blind.
-If your brake lights worked--
-MAN 2: My brake lights are working--
Yo, yo, hang on, buddy.
(shouting)
All right, that's it.
We're gonna settle this right here.
Now what happened?
-I'll--
-I'll tell you what happened!
I stopped and this turkey rammed me
in my backside! That's what happened!
Well, if you had given me--
Don't you go lying to me!
That's enough. Go!
That's it. I want license, registration,
and insurance cards from both of you now.
-MAN: Insurance?
-LUCY: Yes.
With an automobile like this
you don't need insurance.
-Nothing happens to her.
-MAN: Oh, that's perfect, man.
That's perfect!
You don't have no insurance?
-MAN: Right!
-He don't have no insurance. Arrest him!
He don't have no insurance.
You're going to jail.
No one is going to jail today.
That's not gonna happen.
I want you to exchange names
and numbers and that's it.
And they call this justice?
-That's right.
-No, I'll show you justice.
I'll show you justice.
-(tires squeal)
-Hey, where you going?
I got his number.
I got it.
I can't figure it out.
The guy with insurance takes off.
Unbelievable.
I tell you,
about 60 percent of everything up here--
Well, then I believe
I should be on my way.
Hold it.
I want that Caddy to have insurance
or I want it up on blocks, you got that?
Yes, Sergeant, ma'am.
-(tires squeal)
-(woman shrieks)
What the hell?
Couldn't see your brake light.
Well, check it out!
What you gonna do about that?!
PATRICK: Is it discretion, Sergeant?
Tina. No.
You're under arrest.
Pushed it just too far, didn't you, huh?
What kind of pressing business was it?
A sudden opening
to have his teeth cleaned?
Did he say when he wanted to reschedule?
Look, tell Chief Daniels I'm a big boy.
He doesn't want to allocate funds
for black tar, that's his prerogative,
but what I don't want
is to be jerked around
until he decides to tell me that.
Great. We'll reschedule.
I'll be looking forward to your call.
Yo, I could use some
more bodies over here.
Take Thorstein from the Heights
and send me Lane
and Fitzsimmons from the Polk, ASAP.
This is classic!
Provoke a man beyond toleration,
and then persecute him for protecting
his own interests.
-Vehicular assault.
-217, roger. Hang on.
-How you doing, Howard?
-Holding down the fort, Captain.
-Your name, sir?
-Eli Arnold, victim.
HOWARD: Eli Arnold Victim.
-First felon, Captain.
-Attaboy, Norm.
I checked with County, Captain.
Sergeant Jablonski
is still in the operating room.
-Thank you.
-Tuesday. Tuesday.
You just said Monday, Mr. Gidwitz.
Was it Monday?
Monday or Tuesday, Irma? It was the day...
We got a big shot of catching the guy.
-Progress?
-Getting nowhere fast, Captain.
Most of these folks,
they didn't see anything.
Those that did,
they can't remember what it was.
Let's try them in a group.
-Hey, Lieutenant.
-Yeah, Norm?
-You busy?
-Can't you tell?
You know Carlos Gomez, right?
Muscle man in Echevarria's outfit.
We put him away two days
ago on murder one.
Yeah, well, he's one of the guys
they let out last night.
-You're kidding.
-You know where he hangs?
Let's go.
MICK: So, you got two priors pending.
Both for receiving
and selling stolen property.
Plus, we found checks from the guy's
other assault victims
in your cash register.
How does accessory to murder sound to you?
-Hey, come on.
-Relax, bro.
Detective Belker's been watching
too many reruns of Deputy Dawg.
They ain't got a case, right, Sy?
Well, I'll have to bone up
on the specific case law.
What, everything anybody says
he's got to bone up on it.
-(Sy groans)
-What's the matter?
-It the back, Sy?
-No, it's okay. I'm all right.
I'm fine, I'm fine. What was the question?
Is he hanging tough or what?
The man's a boar.
Look, I was in the middle of chapter 11.
My other PD was putting together a package
on my other two priors,
plus, I got this federal rap
for dealing with government checks.
If I roll on this,
she's who puts it together.
What's her name?
-Davenport.
-She's on strike.
He can do this for you.
NG. I got a name for you,
but she's got to do the deal.
You listen to me.
That name you got belongs
to a guy who's killing people.
And if you don't give us that name
before he kills somebody else,
it's gonna be 20 years before you
ever fence another check.
So get me my lawyer.
You got a lawyer!
JESUS: Pretty close to intimidating
your clients, huh?
Don't worry. I ain't intimidated.
(grunts)
Some people take any latitude
you give them for weakness.
Well, those people
you don't give any latitude to.
Can we resume, folks?
-Uh, Councilman.
-What?
Before the shouting started this morning,
I had the feeling
that there was negotiating room
in the council's position.
Let me tell you something, miss.
Nobody is gonna go out on a limb
as long as your friend Mr. Santana
is sitting out there
with his trusty little saw.
But you were going to
offer a new proposal.
-Look, no one likes--
-What terms?
Well, first of all, you might have
been able to get your jobs back.
And without being punished for going out.
But not, see,
if it's just gonna be a foot in the door
so that he can ask for 50 things more
and just to embarrass me.
Rough negotiating session out here?
What's going on, Joyce?
The councilman's proposed
restoring the jobs
and no reprisals for the strike.
It is just a possibility.
We are discussing it.
Well, I think we can do better.
I think we should take it back
to the membership, Danny.
Joyce, why do you think
they're backing down?
I think we should take it back.
Uh, offer's official?
You won't lie and deny you made it?
-You know, you are a lousy little punk!
-(grunting) Take it to your membership.
Ms. Davenport. Excuse me.
Um...
I got a situation at the precinct--
Oh, don't you people learn?
She's on strike.
You wouldn't have to be a lawyer.
Please.
-It'll have to be fast.
-Thank you.
I'll be seeing you.
MAN: See a human detonate himself,
ladies and gentlemen.
In exchange
for your generous contributions,
Professor Explosion will blow himself
to smithereens.
Where you been? That guy's been going
at it for over an hour.
-Nobody's coming into my store.
-I know, lady.
We're gonna take it. You take the crowd,
I'm gonna take the talker.
Okay, let's move it along, folks. Come on.
-TINA: Come on.
-Any donations. Any amount right here.
Hey, come on,
let the guy rock and roll, huh?
Come on, move it back.
The perp will be gone any minute now.
Sir, you're blocking the sidewalk.
It's a public place. You got to get out.
Huh? Burst ear drum in 1954.
The great Tallahassee blow.
You're blocking the sidewalk.
You have to leave.
As soon as he raises the money,
Professor Explosion will surround himself
with 20 pounds of dynamite, 20 pounds.
Hey, my wallet.
Hey, you got my wallet, sucker.
-Give me my wallet!
-He's got a knife!
(clamoring)
Take it, man. (groans)
It didn't have to be like that.
You're under arrest.
You have the right to remain silent.
I got a paramedic.
Listen, this is not the right day for you,
ding-dong,
so you got to get out of here.
I want you to know,
I never saw that unfortunate man
in my life.
I'm not a mere stall for a pickpocket.
I'm an artist.
Short and sweet, Mr. Flowers.
I, along with the other public defenders,
am on strike.
Whatever happened to neither rain
nor snow nor any of that stuff--?
That's the postal service. The point is--
No, the point is these people want a name
of a guy I possibly cashed a check for.
Seems maybe he croaked
a couple of old folks.
Now I figure we are crazy not to fold
my federal beef into the same package.
I am not giving you legal advice,
but Mr. Domarecki here can fold in
those agreements on
your outstanding charges
with the federal prosecutor
just as well as I can.
I brought the pertinent files.
-Well, I'll have to bone up on those.
-Bone up on those, right.
How did I know he was gonna say that?
Do you want to know what I say?
-What?
-No way.
Ms. Davenport.
Couldn't you call this federal guy?
I've done everything that I can,
Detective. Have Mr. Domarecki--
(scoffs) Mr. Domarecki can't walk
and chew gum at the same time.
Detective,
I came here instead of going directly
to report a new offer to the membership.
I recommended to Mr. Flowers
that he accept new counsel.
Now I'm asking you to do one more thing.
If I phone the federal prosecutor,
I'm acting as Flowers' attorney
and I will not do that.
Please, excuse me.
Come on. Get in there.
-Howard.
-Oh, Judas.
Raymond,
would you ice another one, please?
Listen, Sergeant, we are so undermanned
that I'm gonna have to turn you
right around and send you back out.
Eighth and Piedmont. Man is--
He's gonna explode himself?
-(groans)
-Can you believe it?
Neal, J.D., Mick's perp continues
his refusal to cooperate.
I want to use a search warrant
on his store.
Maybe there's a diary, a list.
Something with a name pinned to it
that might give us whoever he was
buying the stolen checks from.
You got it, Captain.
Mick.
You're the arresting officer.
I'll need you in court.
(groans)
(drumming on dash)
Hey, let me guess. Gene Krupa?
Sorry. I just keep thinking about Daniels
giving me the runaround
on that black tar task force.
I sent my proposal three and a half
months ago on this thing.
I stopped counting at
the eighth broken appointment.
Hard to figure that stuff be
such high priority, Lieutenant.
It's cheaper than regular smack.
Junkies don't have to rob
as much to stay high.
Plus, more of them OD, right, Norm?
Policeman's helper.
If we had a task force, we could nail
major dealers like Echevarria.
Instead, we're tailing his flunky to get
a guy we already had in custody.
Yeah, well, que sera, sera . Check it out.
HENRY: Good day, Norm.
Guy in the doorway is Gomez.
NORMAN: If that greaseball leaves
the chick in the red dress
sitting in the car,
I'm gonna go up and slash his tires.
Wait a second.
Ooh, come on, baby. Shake it, mama.
HENRY: They say the place upstairs
is where Echevarria stashes,
but his attorney
had him renovate the building
so there's no legal address.
Hey, wait, wait.
What do you say, Lieutenant?
-Want to start our own task force?
-What do you mean?
That's supposed to be Echevarria's
stash pad, right?
-That's the information.
-All right.
So first we pop Zorro there,
then we head upstairs for fun and games.
-Huh?
-No warrant?
Lieutenant,
you want the good cops medallion
or you want to put some crabs
in Echevarria's jockey shorts, huh?
-Let's go.
Hey, man. Hey, man.
-Forget it.
-Hey, man, can you help me?
I just got here from Jamaica today, man.
I brought my family fortune with me.
See here?
Lame hustle, bad rug.
Go on, beat it, Calypso.
In your ear, man.
Mr. Gomez. Police, you're busted.
-You can't do that.
-We can't, huh?
You know, part of the task force's job
is education, right, Lieutenant?
See you upstairs.
-(knocks)
-Police!
You got three to open up.
-(toilet flushes)
-One!
ECHEVARRIA: Yeah, just a minute.
Hey, hold your horses, all right?
Two!
We got one more, Echevarria.
ECHEVARRIA:
Just relax, all right? We're going.
-Three!
-ECHEVARRIA: Yeah, yeah.
Where's the warrant?
Detective, present the man
with his warrant.
I thought you had the warrant, Detective.
Oh, no. We must have made a mistake,
then, huh?
And all that dope
flushed down the tubes, too.
You are very stupid if you think
you've accomplished anything.
Well, now we just thought you might like
to say adios to Gomez here.
He's going away for a while.
Maybe you'll see him soon.
You have a nice day now, you hear?
Come on, let's go.
(laughs)
(siren blaring)
(Professor Explosion shouting)
RENKO (on megaphone): All right,
Professor, put the dynamite down.
-Nice and easy.
-Fruit cake with dynamite.
All right, Professor,
unhook yourself from that dynamite
and give us a chance to get organized
over here, please.
It will amaze you. It will delight you.
Now, Professor, you really don't want
to blow yourself up, now do you?
It's a living.
Professor, put down the dynamite.
Oh, I can't.
I can't disappoint my public.
They expect detonation.
Well, they're not gonna get it.
Now, Professor, you're endangering
the lives of innocent people--
No, never!
The professor knows all there is to know
about force vectors,
thermodynamic venting.
I was blowing myself up
when you were in diapers.
We're not gonna let you do it.
I don't think this man
is exactly from this here planet.
Too risky to try a sniper, Sarge?
Not with that detonator in his hand.
Sarge, if this guy's
doing it for the money,
maybe we could pay him
more to call it off.
-Good idea.
-Yeah? Who's gonna make the delivery?
Hell, I will. This guy is harmless.
-Come on, come on. Fork some money over.
-All right.
You know, I don't think this is
the firmest investment I ever made.
One minute, ladies and gentlemen.
-(cheering)
-One minute, ladies and gentlemen.
One minute. One minute.
One minute.
Officer coming through.
Hey, Flaherty, be careful out there.
The guy's a real whacko.
This guy's an entrepreneur.
Duck.
-Yo, Professor.
-Stay back.
I cannot guarantee
the safety of interlopers.
Professor, we got some money here for you
if you'll just put this thing off
till tomorrow.
Yo, Professor.
How much?
Oh, I don't know. We got about $100.
-Drop it in.
-You got to cut this out now.
Are you doubting my word?
I'll come out.
Drop it in, I promise.
Ok, now, let's go, Professor.
There's less than $50 here!
Hey, what do you want? We gave you--
Ten, nine...
Get out of there.
Get out of there, Flaherty!
-Professor.
-...eight...
-Oh, come on, Professor.
-...seven...
Flaherty, come on, come on, come on.
...six, five...
What, are you a psychiatrist or something?
...three, two, one.
See, I told you.
Nice plan. Nice plan.
Professor!
Yo!
(chattering)
And what about a humane pay scale?
Cost of living adjustments?
Decent medical coverage?
Are any of these things unreasonable?
-No.
-Well, then let's get them.
The city is on its knees.
Let's take our best shot.
Vote to keep the strike alive.
(cheering)
Joyce.
We went on strike because the city
made it impossible
for us to give our clients
adequate representation.
Under this proposal
the jobs would be restored.
-You like handling a caseload of 300?
-Let her talk.
In answer to Ms. Greene, no, I don't.
But to prolong this strike
to get additional concessions
discredits our integrity.
And while we fight on,
people who are homeless,
unjustly accused of crimes,
helpless people,
will continue to suffer.
We got what we asked for and I am voting
to end the strike and go back to work.
-MAN: Hear, hear.
-And I urge you to do the same.
(cheering)
All right, people. Time to vote.
(overlapping chatter)
-DANNY: Joyce.
-What?
Congratulations.
They couldn't have counted
the votes that fast.
Come on, Joyce. You know you won.
You brought the sheep back into the fold.
If you're saying prevailing sentiment
was for settlement,
I think you're right,
but I don't think it was my doing.
You really don't get it, do you, Joyce?
Every so often there's a window open.
Somehow the fat cats slip up
and the working stiffs get a chance.
Danny, maybe it's shortsighted of me,
but I don't see this as part of some
historical dialectic.
All I know is my work is important to me
and I want a chance to do it.
Well, if you thought that 100 percent,
you wouldn't have swung
on Wachtel yesterday.
I guess I don't buy anything 100 percent.
I'm going to court in case we settle.
You want me to drop you someplace?
No, I'm gonna wait inside.
I'll see if I can jimmy the ballots.
I'll see you.
MICK: Give us a name, hairball.
-You're pushing your luck.
-You blame me?
Infrequent enough a guy like me
gets a little leverage.
The trick is knowing how to apply it,
Mr. Flowers.
-Hey, fellas.
-One moment, please, Your Honor.
Look, I want those other charges dropped.
Those two other check things.
We're dropping our part of it.
You see, the federal charges
are not in their control.
-The social security checks--
-Butt out.
Look, she was dealing with
the federal prosecutor.
They were putting together a package.
We have been unable to secure
federal agreement as of yet,
Mr. Flowers, but I promise you,
giving the police the name they're after
will only help your federal situation.
Look, I understand you guys
are in a hurry.
An addict is attacking
and killing old people.
But I got to get what I can out of this.
No name till I get the whole deal.
Look at this.
Everything's falling apart here.
Hey, look at this.
Federal prosecutor's agreed to waive
in exchange for your cooperation
with the city police.
There.
Now wasn't that easy?
Name, hairball.
Excuse me. You and I have got some
outstanding business, Ms. Davenport.
Your Honor, I'm not representing
this client in business before the court.
Oh, please approach.
(clears throat) Your Honor.
I apologize for my unprofessional conduct
at my last appearance before the bench.
You hit me with a hell of a right.
Mr. Flowers is my client in several other
proceedings, Your Honor.
We've just worked out an agreement
that will be beneficial to all parties.
Regardless of my status--
You see, I thought you were playing games
in my courtroom, Ms. Davenport.
I know you felt that way.
I assure you that was not my intention.
I know I got provocative. That was why.
I'm sorry I responded that way.
I've had the record revised
to grant recess
when you requested it yesterday.
Subsequent events are, um, hm...
off the record.
I appreciate that, Your Honor.
That should square you with the bar.
You guys back to work?
-I hope so, Your Honor.
-You know, Joycie,
I look at you and you are beautiful.
Mm. Got a few bucks.
But I get the feeling
you're just visiting.
I have to live here.
I assure you, Your Honor,
that I'm no visitor.
This is my house, too.
Good.
All right, step back.
Bernstein.
-The people waive prosecution, Your Honor.
-Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Dismissed.
(bangs gavel)
Go ahead.
Come on!
Joey Summers. Lives in the Genesee Hotel.
Okay, here you go.
There's one.
There's two. Two for the price of one.
Today only.
J.D., this ain't working, babe.
Let's call it.
Patience, Neal. Patience.
But this is wrong, man.
We only have a warrant to search.
Don't say nothing about opening up
this place for business.
J.D.: Hey, hey, check it out.
(humming)
-Hey, Manny around, man?
-Mm-mm, out sick.
When will he be back?
Why? You need something?
You know what the split is?
-The usual.
-(chuckles) I'll wait for Manny.
Hey, yo, man!
Hey, you cheated me out of my share, man!
Uh-uh, uh-uh, that ain't right.
That ain't right.
Now, I take all the risks
and then you gonna take me, Jack?
-Pal, you want to keep it down?
-I want what's coming to me.
All right. Hey, cool your jets. Now here.
Here's your lousy 50 bucks, huh?
-Now take a hike.
-Chump.
(door bell jingles)
Sixty-forty split, man.
And don't try to do me.
Abraham Levinson.
Hey, that's the guy who got killed
last night, isn't it?
Don't move, my man. Police.
What he means is spread 'em.
Come on, stand up straight,
will you, Desi, huh?
You know, I got real excited
when I heard they cut you loose.
I love mistakes like that.
It means we get a second chance
to rearrange your chops.
(chuckles)
You got his paper, Lieutenant?
You know, uh, we'll be real sure
to tell your buddy Echevarria
that you're not giving him up in here.
I mean,
you're not giving us chapter and verse
of every single freakin' thing he does.
(laughs) Pepe.
If I get real lucky,
they'll cut you loose again, you know?
Maybe we'll get to play
a sudden death overtime, huh.
Now, don't steal any bongos, all right?
(chuckles)
Not enough people
remember Desi for his music.
You don't like it, right?
I got to admit it.
Lieutenant, I want my perp
the minute he sets foot on my turf,
I want him scared.
That makes up for all
the legal mumbo jumbo
they get the benefit of later on.
You mean that mumbo jumbo
about representation,
the right to confront one's accuser,
like that?
Booking is an important part
in the criminal's journey
through the legal system, you know.
It helps us maximize the benefits
of our law enforcement dollars.
-(chuckles)
-Maybe you're right, Norm.
I don't see me getting my task force.
How about a cold, frosty lager?
-Twist my arm.
-You mean that?
Am I understanding this right?
You go into the fences' hardware store
on a warrant to search
and instead of searching,
you open up for business?
What Belker is trying to say, Neal,
is, "Guys, thanks for helping.
Thanks for popping Joey Summers."
What if he claims entrapment, John?
-No way.
-Dude came to us, Mick.
He was ready to do business.
I'm telling you guys, a sharp attorney--
Will you give it a rest, Mick?
-The case makes.
-It can unmake.
They can say the bust
was proceeds of a misapplied warrant.
Young Clarence Darrow.
Two minutes off a picket line,
I'm hip-deep in felons.
They got your signature
on that dead guy's check?
Guess I should have signed it left-handed.
That was a weak stall at that store, man.
Look like you bought it, small time.
All right, look, I'll look over this stuff
when I get the chance.
Top of my head,
we plead what they give us.
Take him to holding.
NEAL: Busy as the PDs are, Mick,
-I think we're gonna be okay.
-Now will you relax?
(scoffs)
Howard.
-Captain.
-What did you think?
I had duties, I performed them.
Well, you have a choice here, Howard.
Tell me if you like the job.
It was hardly my choice
to be demoted, Captain.
But, if I am to be a sergeant...
This is the sergeant I'd like to be.
Aw, Renko. Would you please?
My feet hurt me so bad.
I'm gonna tell you something,
I'm never gonna permit myself
to get put on foot patrol again.
I think walking a beat puts you
back in touch with the precinct,
though it does have its downside.
Renko, is this-- what?
RENKO: What do you think of him?
-BOBBY: Flaherty?
-Yeah.
I mean, he showed me
some intestinal fortitude
facing up that professor today
with all that dynamite
strapped to his body.
-But still--
-Renko, she's got to ride with someone.
Yeah, I suppose.
Mm...
-Oh!
-Enough.
Excuse my fingers.
(chuckles)
Flaherty.
Patrick, uh...
maybe this is the wrong time.
-I should wait.
-Sergeant, proceed.
It's about Professor Explosion.
-Yeah.
-About your idea.
-My brilliant idea.
-Yeah.
Which, uh, backfired.
Even if it hadn't, you were wrong.
I mean, you should never have tried that.
Figured I'd take a shot.
Yeah, but, Patrick, procedure is
the bomb squad does the business.
Uniforms provide backup
and deal with the safety of the crowds.
That's it.
Bomb squad wasn't doing nothing.
The bomb squad was
getting ready to do something.
Sorry, forgive
the office lecture afterhours.
Why didn't you tell me at the time?
I really haven't figured
that out yet. I...
I guess I just got caught up
in watching you.
-Anyway...
-Anyway.
Welcome to the Hill.
Ed Andrews says you gave quite a speech.
I think I made an enemy
out of Danny Santana.
Danny Santana is his own enemy.
He talked to me after
we had voted to go back.
Said that I had cost us a chance
to change how we do our jobs.
There's a kind of guy
who doesn't want solutions, you know?
He just wants to keep the pot boiling.
I ain't one of them.
Hope you're not sick of this hotel.
Actually, I couldn't believe it
when you said you had made
a dinner reservation here of all places.
How do you feel about room 317?
(monitor beeping)
Look.
An angel.
Hi, Sarge.
I came through, huh?
You came through.
I guess that's good.
-Mick.
-How you feeling, Stan?
Okay, unless I'm hallucinating.
Doctor said you made it
through the tough part.
-He said you're gonna be fine.
-No kidding?
He's gonna be in here in a second.
You ask him yourself.
Mouth feels like it's full of cotton.
Here, take a sip of this.
Boy, that's good.
(chuckles) I'm alive.
I'm alive.
(closing theme playing)